% https://www.openoffice.org/bibliographic/bibtex-defs.html

updated from Appendix B2 of the LaTeX guide, Leslie Lamport.

References to different types of publications contain different
information; a reference to a journal article might include the volume
and number of the journal, which is usually not meaningful for a
book. Therefore, database entries of different types have different
fields. For each entry type, the fields are divided into three classes:

 required
    Omitting the field will produce a warning message and, rarely,
    a badly formatted bibliography entry. If the required information
    is not meaningful, you are using the wrong entry type. However, if
    the required information is meaningful but, say, already included
    is some other field, simply ignore the warning.

 optional
    The field's information will be used if present, but can be omitted
    without causing any formatting problems. You should include the
    optional field if it will help the reader.

 ignored
    The field is ignored. Ignores any field that is not required or
    optional, so you can include any fields you want in a bib file
    entry. It's a good idea to put all relevant information about a
    reference in its bib file entry--even information that may never
    appear in the bibliography. For example, if you want to keep an
    abstract of a paper in a computer file, put it in an abstract
    field in the paper's bib file entry. The bib file is likely to
    be as good a place as any for the abstract, and it is possible to
    design a bibliography style for printing selected abstracts. Note:
    Misspelling a field name will result in its being ignored, so watch
    out for typos (especially for optional fields, since won't warn you
    when those are missing).

Types of entries:

 article
    An article from a journal or magazine. Required fields: author, title,
    journal, year. Optional fields: volume, number, pages, month, note.

 book
    A book with an explicit publisher. Required fields: author or editor,
    title, publisher, year. Optional fields: volume or number, series,
    address, edition, month, note.

 booklet
    A work that is printed and bound, but without a named publisher
    or sponsoring institution. Required field: title. Optional fields:
    author, howpublished, address, month, year, note.

 conference
    The same as INPROCEEDINGS, included for Scribe compatibility. 

 inbook
    A part of a book, which may be a chapter (or section or whatever)
    and/or a range of pages. Required fields: author or editor, title,
    chapter and/or pages, publisher, year. Optional fields: volume or
    number, series, type, address, edition, month, note.

 incollection
    A part of a book having its own title. Required fields: author, title,
    booktitle, publisher, year. Optional fields: editor, volume or number,
    series, type, chapter, pages, address, edition, month, note.

 inproceedings
    An article in a conference proceedings. Required fields: author,
    title, booktitle, year. Optional fields: editor, volume or number,
    series, pages, address, month, organization, publisher, note.

 manual
    Technical documentation. Required field: title. Optional fields:
    author, organization, address, edition, month, year, note.

 mastersthesis
    A Master's thesis. Required fields: author, title, school,
    year. Optional fields: type, address, month, note.

 misc
    Use this type when nothing else fits. Required fields: none. Optional
    fields: author, title, howpublished, month, year, note.

 phdthesis
    A PhD thesis. Required fields: author, title, school, year. Optional
    fields: type, address, month, note.

 proceedings
    The proceedings of a conference. Required fields: title,
    year. Optional fields: editor, volume or number, series, address,
    month, organization, publisher, note.

 techreport
    A report published by a school or other institution, usually numbered
    within a series. Required fields: author, title, institution,
    year. Optional fields: type, number, address, month, note.

 unpublished
    A document having an author and title, but not formally
    published. Required fields: author, title, note. Optional fields:
    month, year.

eof
