The GNU autotools are documented with the info system.  

For help, do
    info automake
    info autoconf
etc.

Briefly:
    The .ac files are processed by autoconf (configure.ac -> configure)
    The .am files are processed by automake (Makefile.am -> Makefile.in)
    The .in files are processed by configure into final things (Makefile)
Then you build with the usual make commands.

To add a new directory with stuff:
    make the directory
    give it a Makefile.am
    adjust SUBDIRS above or below appropriately
    add it to a AC_CONFIG_FILES() list in configure.ac

The make system automatically detects changes and invokes the autotools
as it thinks they are needed.  Note that reconfiguration is done with

    set environment vars ....  config.status options

All the tools take --help for guidance.

Automake has general rules to work out what to build and where to install
to based on some special targets.  Basically, everything built is mentioned in
a macro that says where it goes.  The thing built gets lists of sources, and
compilation flags and linkage flags for things that aren't generally worked
out by configure.  Finally, for distribution, everything needed is on the
list of files to be gathered for the tarball.  However, there are a few
things that automake may not know about; these should be mentioned in the
EXTRA_DIST target.

Documents are a bit of an exception as automake doesn't have internal rules
for latex.  In every single document directory you need to list the sources
(which is to say anthing needed by the input file to pdflatex, and with
with $(srcdir)/... since the sources are in the source directory, not in the
build directory) in the EXTRA_DIST target.  You can then use $(EXTRA_DIST) as
the dependency for the force build target which is how we get Makefile to
build twice, but only if one of these files or Makefile.am changes.  If you
adjust the files for each document, don't forget to change EXTRA_DIST.

In theory, most of the tex Makefile contents could be automake-included from
some common source, or generated from autoconf rules defined in the top-level
m4 directory.

If everything is correct, a top-level

    make distcheck

should find any errors in the automake process.

eof
